{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red83\green83\blue83;
\red16\green60\blue192;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl580\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs42 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Project Title:
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 https://github.com/codeforprinceton/mercerCountyBikeAbilityMap
\fs24 \cf2 \ulnone \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Summary
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Creating a visualization using the DVRPC bike data that shows the best routes for biking and suggesting further improvements to the current platform such as user input for bike routes.
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Tool Type
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 This is a tool that is basing on data provided by DVRPC (Delaware Raritan Regional Planning Commission), but it will require some input from citizens for validating data and mapping real-time changes
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Core Team
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Mark Martinez (mark.anthony.martinez.zwei@gmail.com)
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Maria Gorbunova (maria.gorbunova@gmail.com)
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Primary Stakeholders
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Cyclists in greater Princeton area and Mercer county
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Primary User Stories
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 This tool would help find the best bike routes within Mercer County and help with commutes.
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Goals and Outcomes
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Utilizing the DVRPC bike data to create a map visualization. \'a0
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Resources Needed
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 More recent data would improve the quality of the map. It is unclear when the original dataset was collected, but a more up to date version of it would improve the visualization. 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Having someone proficient in Javascript would be helpful to create the webpages required for this project.
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Potential Blockers
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Lack of up to date data limits the use of this application. 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Timeline
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Early March: 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Validate when the data was collected.
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Use Javascript to place data on the bikeability website.
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 Mid - End March:
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 	Incorporate Google Map data to include bike paths not in original dataset.
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 April:
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 	Create a platform for user input to improve the data and make adjustments to the map.
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 History and Context
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 The data used in this project was collected and analyzed by DVRPC between 2007 and 2009. The current map on DVRPC website uses bicycling layer from Google Maps, not DVRPC data. 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 DVRPC dataset is valuable, however it is not very recent and it only contains information on roads (therefore it lacks data about some important bike paths like the canal towpath). It would make sense to combine DVRPC data with Google Maps bicycling layer. It would also be useful to create a platform for users to report errors and suggest new routes. 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 References
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \

\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4 https://github.com/codeforprinceton/DVRPC-geodata
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.dvrpc.org/asp/bikemercer/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs26 \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 http://www.dvrpc.org/asp/bikemercer/}}
\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4  Existing map (uses bicycling layer from Google Maps, not the DVRPC data)
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://columbialibraries.cartodb.com/u/mg3679/viz/b4aa8b98-dd76-11e5-bf40-0ecd1babdde5/public_map"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs26 \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 https://columbialibraries.cartodb.com/u/mg3679/viz/b4aa8b98-dd76-11e5-bf40-0ecd1babdde5/public_map}}
\b\fs26 \cf4 \strokec4  Visualization of the DVRPC Data
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
}